





INTERNET-DRAFT                                               W A Simpson
                                                              DayDreamer
                                                                 P Vixie
                                                                     ISC
Intended status: Experimental                             5 January 2015


                  Defiance Address-Change Signaling -
                        Concepts and Facilities
                     draft-simpson-acscf-2013May04









































Simpson, Vixie           expires after 6 months                 ^L[Page i]





RFC DRAFT                         ACSCF                   5 January 2015


1.  Introduction

   Internet sites are frequently blocked by government and institutional
   firewalls.  Content filtering firewalls capture and analyze network
   traffic to autonomously determine what to block, checking for
   predefined signatures or sensitive keywords.

   If the censor simply denies access to the Internet Protocol (IP)
   network itself, blocked users can no longer benefit from
   confidentiality protocols that assist in evading local censorship
   [DM2006].  When an adversary controls the connection to the Internet,
   and associated IP addresses become known over time, current protocols
   are easy to circumvent:

    - by blocking direct communication with the service itself,

    - by blocking communication with a service discovery component,

    - by blocking access entry points distributed by service discovery
      and/or listed in a communal service directory,

    - by scanning suspect IP addresses or address blocks for service
      response fingerprints and preemptively blocking them, or

    - by filtering based on the fingerprint of the protocol.

   Service discovery and access entry points are insufficiently numerous
   and change infrequently.  A well-funded adversary can locate them
   all.

   This document proposes techniques for averting scanning and avoiding
   blocking of service discovery and access entry points.  Address Pools
   are provisioned with sufficient quantity, quality, and diversity,
   frustrating efforts of censors to predict, map, or block the IP
   addresses.

   Although all service responses and protocols have a fingerprint, this
   design attempts to mimic other wide-spread protocols and services.
   It is intended to be used together with other mitigation efforts.


1.1.  Rejected Alternatives

   Volunteer facilities for service discovery and access entry points
   are often inadequate and insecure.  Consumer grade infrastructure is
   easily swamped by traffic volumes, causing an inadvertent Denial of
   Service (DoS).




Simpson, Vixie           expires after 6 months                 ^L[Page 1]





RFC DRAFT                         ACSCF                   5 January 2015


   Combining service discovery with access entry points is very likely
   to be compromised.  If a user is an adversary or cooperating with an
   adversary, this information could be quickly blocked.

   The One Time Telescope (OTT) proposal involved a larger than
   practical (O(10**6)) inventory of IP addresses and had inadequate
   protection against DoS attacks, scanning, and traffic analysis.

   Other alternatives are mentioned throughout this document.


1.2.  Terminology

   The key words "MAY", "MUST, "MUST NOT", "OPTIONAL", "RECOMMENDED",
   "REQUIRED", "SHOULD", and "SHOULD NOT" in this document are to be
   interpreted as described in [RFC2119].

   access entry point
                    Compound term encompassing the combined concepts of
                    access, authentication, authorization, and entry
                    point.  Not dependent on a particular technology.
                    Distinguished from service discovery.

   Address Pool Operator
                    The management organization administering the
                    APRAdb.

   Address Pool Provider
                    An Internet Service Provider (ISP) supplying IP
                    addresses and/or network data center facilities to
                    the Address Pool Operator.

   APRP             Address Pool Registration Protocol.

   APRAdb           Address Pool Registration Administrative database.

   Defiance User Agent
                    A client-side mechanism that accesses these
                    protocol(s) and service(s), expected to be
                    implemented as an extension of the [Tor] mechanism.
                    Details are beyond the scope of this specification.

   DUA              Defiance User Agent.

   peer             The other end of a Transmission Control Protocol
                    (TCP) session.





Simpson, Vixie           expires after 6 months                 ^L[Page 2]





RFC DRAFT                         ACSCF                   5 January 2015


   user             A person who operates a Defiance User Agent.


2.  Adversary Model

   In the usual security tradition, this model aims to defeat a strong
   adversary.  By defending against this adversary, the model inherits
   protection against weaker adversaries as well [DM2006].

   A general design will work for citizens of censored countries, for
   whistleblowers in firewalled corporate networks, and for people in
   unanticipated oppressive situations.  Designing with a variety of
   adversaries in mind takes advantage of the fact that various
   adversaries will be in different stages of the arms race, so a
   resource blocked in one locale can still be useful in others.


2.1.  Adversary Strengths

   This strong adversary is assumed to be a nation-state or state-
   sponsored technology group having modern skills and tools.

   1) They are capable of inspecting and analyzing network traffic, both
      at the superficial header level and by deep packet inspection.

   2) They are patient and well resourced.

      a) They have sufficient computational processing and storage to
         build extensive social maps of users.

      b) They have contractors and other assets around the world who aid
         their censorship.

   3) If their traffic analysis leads them to suspect IP addresses or
      address blocks are being used for censorship bypass, they can scan
      those network address blocks.  These scans might appear from
      anywhere in the world using contractors or other assets.
      Preventing scans entirely might be taken as sufficient provocation
      to immediately block those IP addresses or address blocks.

   4) They control access to the Domain Name System (DNS) [RFC1034]
      [RFC1035].

      a) They can detect every direct user request for censored sites,
         either in real-time or after the fact.

      b) By blocking a request, they can prevent a user from learning
         requested DNS information.



Simpson, Vixie           expires after 6 months                 ^L[Page 3]





RFC DRAFT                         ACSCF                   5 January 2015


      c) By modifying the response, or by replacing the response with
         entirely false information, they can redirect a user to a
         different service or site than the user intended.

      d) Without DNS security ([RFC4033] et seq.), interceptions would
         be undetectable.  Yet the absence of DNS security is
         commonplace, and most tools will continue without any user
         notification.

      e) If DNS security is required, there might not be any valid
         responses.

   5) They can create counterfeit certificates used for Transport Layer
      Security (TLS) [RFC5246].

      a) They can detect every direct user request for censored sites,
         either in real-time or after the fact.

      b) By blocking a request, they can prevent a user from completing
         a TLS connection.

      c) By modifying the response, or by replacing the response with
         entirely false information, they can perform a Monkey-In-The-
         Middle (MITM) interception.  While relaying traffic between
         peers, they could undetectably copy or modify the information.

   6) They will eventually locate all previously used information assets
      such as bridge or tunnel entry points, rendezvous points, and
      traffic aggregation points.

   As a second-order effect, censors aim to chill citizens' behavior by
   creating an impression that their online activities are monitored
   [DM2006].


2.2.  Adversary Weaknesses

   On the other hand, the model assumes that the censors (or their
   governments) would like to have a working, useful Internet [DM2006].
   There are economic, political, and social factors that prevent
   limiting access to only a tiny list of sites or outlawing the
   Internet entirely.

   1) Users have some control over their hardware and software.  The
      user will be able to fetch a genuine version of the software,
      rather than one supplied by an adversary.  They don't have any
      spyware installed, there are no cameras watching their screens,
      etc.



Simpson, Vixie           expires after 6 months                 ^L[Page 4]





RFC DRAFT                         ACSCF                   5 January 2015


      Unfortunately, in some situations these threats are only too real.
      Software-based security systems are poorly equipped to handle a
      user who is entirely observed and controlled by an adversary.

   2) Complete blocking of specific content is not a goal.  Censors
      typically recognize that perfect censorship is both impossible and
      unnecessary.  If "undesirable" information is known only to a few,
      further censoring efforts can be focused elsewhere.

      Never-the-less, censors are willing to block innocuous content
      (such as the bulk of a newspaper's reporting) in order to censor
      other content distributed through the same channels (that
      newspaper's coverage of the censored country).  When Address Pool
      Providers are revealed, it is possible that all traffic through
      that provider will be blocked.

   3) Firewalls have limited processing and storage.  An adversary is
      unable to correlate every connection and packet in every stream on
      the local or regional network in real-time.

   4) There will be a time lag between an adversary detecting assets,
      and their ability to block usage of that specific asset.

      Without sufficient time, compared to both human reactions and
      automated expiration of ephemeral services, rapid rotation of
      Address Pool reserves is likely to be futile.

   5) While various censorship regimes can coordinate and share notes,
      there will be a time lag between one adversary learning about
      assets, or overcoming another facet of the design, and sharing
      that information with other adversaries.  This information is most
      commonly shared via intermediaries, such as censorship supporting
      vendors of firewalls, intrusion detection, and other middleware.

      Without sufficient time, acquisition and allocation of Address
      Pool resources is likely to be futile.


3.  Solution Overview

   Rather than a few thousand well-known access entry points, tens (or
   hundreds) of thousands of ephemeral IP addresses are coordinated by
   Address Pool Operators via central APRAdb servers and regional
   Gateways.

   Relay-based blocking resistance designs generally have two main
   components: a discovery component and a relay component [DM2006].
   This design includes an Address-Change Signaling transition to



Simpson, Vixie           expires after 6 months                 ^L[Page 5]





RFC DRAFT                         ACSCF                   5 January 2015


   obfuscate these main components.

   1) Ephemeral contact information is distributed to each user (or
      small group of users).

   2) The DUA initiates contact with an apparently innocuous server.
      This Initial Gateway returns a token (cookie).

   3) The DUA delays for a specified period of time.  During this time,
      the user or DUA continues contacting other innocuous sites.

   4) The DUA contacts another apparently innocuous server.  This
      Redirect Gateway verifies the Initial Contact and returns a short
      partial list of available ephemeral Bridge Relays.

   5) The DUA distributes censorship evading traffic among the Bridge
      Relays using equal cost multi-path (ECMP) techniques.

   6) The user or DUA continues contacting other innocuous sites as
      cover traffic to disguise interest in these contact and/or bridge
      relay Gateways.

   Design Considerations:
      IP addresses frequently change between contacts from mobile
      devices.  Conversely, the IP address remains the same for multiple
      users who share connections behind a Network Address Translator
      (NAT) [RFC3022].

      Therefore, this protocol MUST NOT depend upon any IP address for
      security.  The protocol generates a different token (cookie) for
      each separate contact sequence.

      IP addresses change frequently during normal network operations.
      This sequence of steps is intended to take advantage of any
      firewall's limited processing and storage by spreading contacts
      over time (see section "Adversary Weaknesses" item 3).

      Generation of cover traffic by a user or DUA is beyond the scope
      of this specification.

   Rejected alternatives:
      Combining Initial Contact and Redirect Contact would require
      (O(N**2)) verification, searching the entire Gateway database
      cache of distributed contact information for every user (or small
      group of users).  This search will be impractical.

      More than two (2) contacts might become too obvious.  Security
      protocols are safer with the fewest steps, unless there's a



Simpson, Vixie           expires after 6 months                 ^L[Page 6]





RFC DRAFT                         ACSCF                   5 January 2015


      technical reason for extra steps (such as splitting
      computationally expensive steps to avoid a DoS attack, as in
      Photuris [RFC2522]).

      Earlier versions of this proposal silently discarded all Initial
      Contacts, or Redirect Contacts and Bridge Relay connections that
      did not occur during the specified period of time.  Relying on the
      IP address of the contacts to validate the contact sequence would
      not work for mobile users or multiple users behind a NAT.

      Moreover, this was identified as a possible traffic analysis
      vulnerability.  Whenever ephemeral IP addresses are contacted by a
      non-participant, this behavior is now a controllable parameter.


3.1.  Address-Change Signaling

   A central feature of this solution is Address-Change Signaling,
   produced by the timing of contacts to a sequence of IP addresses.
   Each contact appears indistinguishable from innocuous background
   traffic.  This is expected to be most efficacious in locations where
   other traffic is frequently transmitted, such as Internet cafes or
   behind a NAT in a larger organization.

   It is essential that there is no unusual pattern to detect by an
   adversary monitoring user traffic.  Each contact uses only standard
   techniques, mimicking common browsing and network access.

   An adversary scanning IP address blocks will not discover the contact
   and/or bridge relay Gateways.  Without the correct sequence and
   timing, the Gateway does not respond to the contact or returns an
   innocuous response.

   Design Considerations:
      This term is similar to "frequency-change signaling" (a well-known
      technique for more than a century), where one or more discrete
      frequencies correspond to each desired significant condition of a
      radio or telegraph code.  For example, different frequencies are
      used for control and data communication.

      Related forms of signaling have also been used with Frequency
      Hopping Spread Spectrum, where the pseudo-random frequency
      sequence is keyed by a secret.

      Internet Protocol (IP) addresses correspond to frequencies in this
      design.





Simpson, Vixie           expires after 6 months                 ^L[Page 7]





RFC DRAFT                         ACSCF                   5 January 2015


   Rejected alternatives:
      Another similar idea is "port knocking".  Contacts are made to a
      secret sequence of Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) or User
      Datagram Protocol (UDP) ports at a single IP address.  Without the
      correct sequence, the desired port will remain closed, defeating
      active remote scanning for open ports and services.

      A multiple [RFC2616] HTTP GET sequence is similar to port
      knocking.  Contacts are made to a secret sequence of relative
      paths at a single HTTP Host and/or secret sequence of Hosts at a
      single IP address.

      Any unusual knocking traffic pattern is readily detected by an
      adversary and communication to the IP address could be blocked
      rapidly (see section "Adversary Strengths" item 1).


3.2.  Address Pools

   These contact and/or bridge relay Gateways will use the Address Pool
   Registration Protocol (APRP) to register IP addresses widely
   distributed throughout many hundreds of small blocks (4 to 256
   addresses per block).  Ephemeral IP addresses will be scheduled
   sparingly, sparsely, and unpredictably, preventing immediate
   identification by an adversary.


3.3.  Address Leases

   Deployment will use the same techniques that miscreant botnets and
   spammers utilize to evade detection.  Address blocks will be leased
   from Address Pool Providers around the world.  Indeed, this will be a
   good opportunity for re-purposing blocks that are already poisoned in
   network blocking lists due to prior spamming.

   Each provider will carve out sub-nets of their IP address space that
   is globally reachable via the Border Gateway Protocol (BGP)
   [RFC4271].  The set of IP sub-nets made available is expected to
   change over time.  Since this resource will be sparsely used, the IP
   address supply is expected to be generous.

   An IP sub-net may be revoked at any time by the Address Pool
   Operator.  Usage will drain by attrition, as ephemeral contact
   addresses and/or bridge relay identities expire.  The sub-net can
   eventually be removed from the Address Pools and used for other
   purposes.





Simpson, Vixie           expires after 6 months                 ^L[Page 8]





RFC DRAFT                         ACSCF                   5 January 2015


4.  Servers

   APRAdb servers will communicate with contact and/or bridge relay
   Gateways using APRP, maintaining

   1) Address Pool sub-net registration,

   2) the state of each pool IP address,

   3) provisioning for each user (or small group of users),

   4) a contact history log, and

   5) assignment of the ephemeral Bridge Relay(s).

   Ephemeral IP addresses will periodically alternate usage as contact
   and/or bridge relays.  Each pool IP address has a state (idle,
   initial, redirect, relay, unusable).  Each contact IP address has a
   history (assignments, contacts, timeouts).

   The Secure Shell (SSH) protocol ([RFC4251] et seq.)  is used for APRP
   authentication, confidentiality, and integrity.  SSH provides "keep
   alives" for black hole prevention and to detect peer failure.


4.1.  Database Servers

   APRAdb servers will use a hub and spoke model.  The hub will consist
   of an active primary master node and a hot-standby backup node.  This
   reduces the number of interconnections between Gateways (compared to
   a full mesh) and facilitates maintenance operations.

   Regional APRAdb servers MAY be deployed to further reduce network
   latency.  These servers will self-select pairs of master and backup
   nodes.  Details are beyond the scope of this specification.

   Design Considerations:
      Locally deployed servers are less vulnerable to monitoring (or
      physical tampering).  While the IP address(es) and physical
      location are revealed by observation of Gateway traffic, there is
      less concern that they might be remotely compromised.  They do not
      run most commonly vulnerable services (such as HTTP).  The Address
      Pool Operator MUST use best current practices for securing these
      servers.







Simpson, Vixie           expires after 6 months                 ^L[Page 9]





RFC DRAFT                         ACSCF                   5 January 2015


   Rejected alternatives:
      APRAdb servers do not use [Tor] Hidden Service Protocol
      "rendezvous points" to hide their locations.  This would
      considerably increase network latency, and could increase
      vulnerability to a DoS congestion attack.  Although APRP traffic
      is handled in parallel with DUA responses, all servers and
      services SHOULD respond as consistently as practicable to inhibit
      traffic analysis of differences in response timing (see section
      "Adversary Strengths" items 1 and 3).


4.2.  Gateways

   Deployment of contact and/or bridge relay Gateways will use regional
   virtual servers installed in a data center at each Address Pool
   Provider location to reduce network latency.  Each such Gateway will
   accept multiple IP addresses within the Address Pool sub-net.
   Deployment SHOULD use available IP addresses interleaved with other
   local servers.

   Each Gateway registers its Address Pool IP addresses with the APRAdb
   using APRP.  Whenever both APRAdb master and backup SSH sessions are
   closed, the Gateway will cease responding to contacts until SSH
   communication is re-established.

   Design Considerations:
      Remotely deployed Gateways are more vulnerable to monitoring (or
      physical tampering) by an untrusted provider, who could be
      suborned by an adversary.  Operations and protocols MUST NOT
      reveal confidential information.  Protocol data passing through
      the Gateways MUST NOT reveal any long-term identities and secrets.

      SSH will not be a conspicuous connection between servers, as it is
      commonly used for logging, monitoring, and other operations.  APRP
      signaling from the contact and/or bridge relay Gateways is
      intended to mimic common system logs sent to a log server.

      Never-the-less, configuration information and traffic for the SSH
      connections will reveal the current location of the APRAdb servers
      and in some cases a relationship between Gateways.  This could be
      used to correlate incoming contacts with traffic retained by an
      adversary or an untrusted provider.

      Although the pattern of contacts will be observable, APRP traffic
      to each Gateway is combined over a single monitoring connection to
      inhibit traffic analysis that reveals the current usage of each
      ephemeral IP address.  The varied mix of operations is expected to
      inhibit traffic analysis of specific users in real-time.



Simpson, Vixie           expires after 6 months                ^L[Page 10]





RFC DRAFT                         ACSCF                   5 January 2015


4.3.  Routing via Tunnels

   Future deployment will improve operational scaling by tunneling
   additional Address Pool sub-nets to previously deployed Gateways.
   While reducing operational expense, this facilitates rapid and
   flexible deployment.

   Each IP sub-net will be tunneled via an interior router supplied by
   the Address Pool Operator or by the Address Pool Provider.  Both
   dynamic and static routing models SHOULD be made available in
   implementations.

   Dynamic routing such as OSPF or RIP would reduce configuration
   complexity.  Once an IP sub-net has been configured, the router could
   both advertise it via the dynamic routing protocol (thus achieving
   reachability) and also register its sub-nets with the Gateway (thus
   achieving utility).

   Since any logic or configuration errors in the Address Pool router
   could affect the provider's entire network, some providers are
   expected to be extremely cautious about allowing an outside router to
   participate in the network's dynamic routing.  If IP sub-nets are
   routed statically, then the Address Pool router and the provider's
   other routers will be independently configured.  Each such IP sub-net
   will be registered in the Address Pools via APRP.

   The routed traffic is carried to Gateways over a tunnel protocol,
   such as GRE, IPsec, L2TP, MPLS, SSH, etc.  The choice will depend on
   available routing equipment.  The tunnel SHOULD terminate at the
   topologically closest regional Gateway to reduce network latency.

   Design Considerations:
      It is essential that there is no unusual pattern to detect by an
      adversary monitoring user traffic.  Each tunnel uses only standard
      techniques.

      While inspecting and analyzing network traffic, an adversary could
      observe any reduction of the Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU).  The
      tunnel overhead MUST use commonly deployed MTUs.  Protocols that
      do not shrink the MTU will be preferred.

      While scanning network address blocks, an adversary could observe
      any changes in network latency (see section "Adversary Strengths"
      item 3).  Deployment MUST use only contiguous network blocks,
      without any telltale interleaving with other local servers.

      Compared to remotely deployed Gateways, monitoring (or tampering)
      by an untrusted provider will not reveal as much information.  All



Simpson, Vixie           expires after 6 months                ^L[Page 11]





RFC DRAFT                         ACSCF                   5 January 2015


      traffic passing through the router(s) is secured.  Configuration
      information and traffic will not reveal the current location of
      the APRAdb servers, nor contact and/or bridge relay Gateways
      deployed at other providers.


4.4.  Hostile Areas

   Forward deployment into hostile areas is possible only where routing
   via tunnel protocol(s) is feasible and without undue interruption.
   As these tunnels would otherwise converge upon and reveal extant
   Gateways, they MUST operate over a multi-hop tunnel network
   (potentially revealing Address Pool Providers).

   Design Considerations:
      That poses a problem: is the tunnel protocol used over the routing
      network more readily detected than the [Tor] network itself?

      Another problem: this would not use the same method of setup.
      There's no proof-of-life and proof-of-work.

      Until these questions are answered, forward deployment into
      hostile areas is beyond the scope of this specification.


5.  Gateway Provisioning

   Each Gateway configuration will include a list of IP address blocks
   it serves.  The Gateway database cache is initialized with these IP
   addresses in the idle state.

   During Discovery Provisioning (below), the APRAdb updates the status
   of IP addresses at the contact and/or bridge relay Gateways with the
   designated provisioning information.  The update includes the current
   state for each IP address, a list of specific IP address ranges that
   are allowed access (defaulting to all), and additional details
   specific to each state.

   The distribution mechanism MAY request a delay for activating the
   contact addresses.  These updates are queued by the APRAdb and sent
   later.  During the delay, these IP addresses MAY be used for other
   services.

   After an indication that an adversary has blocked an IP address, or
   an IP address is the current destination of a DoS attack, the APRAdb
   will update these IP address(es) as unusable.  The update MAY include
   a list of specific IP address ranges that are denied access
   (defaulting to all).



Simpson, Vixie           expires after 6 months                ^L[Page 12]





RFC DRAFT                         ACSCF                   5 January 2015


   Design Considerations:
      Algorithms for address assignment are beyond the scope of this
      specification.


5.1.  Bridge Relay List

   A variable length array of Bridge Relays is transmitted from the
   APRAdb to the Redirect Gateway, and thence to the DUA.  An example,
   in [RFC4627] application/json format:

   [
      {
         "Contact": {
            "IP_address": "198.51.100.33",
            "Encapsulations": [
               {
                  "IP_subheader": 6,
                  "Discriminator": 443
               }
            ]
         },
         "BR_Access": {
            "br_expiration": 3600,
            "br_identity": "7QDBkvCA1-B9K_U0vrQx1A",
            "br_secret": "Zm9vYmFy"
         }
      },
      {
         "Contact": {
            "IP_address": "203.0.113.44",
            "Encapsulations": [
               {
                  "IP_subheader": 6,
                  "Discriminator": 443
               }
            ]
         },
         "BR_Access": {
            "br_expiration": 7200,
            "br_identity": "A1xQrv0U_K9B-1ACvkBDQ7",
            "br_secret": "yFmYv9mZ"
         }
      }
   ]

      Nota Bene: example values above are illustrative, and SHOULD NOT
      be used in operation.



Simpson, Vixie           expires after 6 months                ^L[Page 13]





RFC DRAFT                         ACSCF                   5 January 2015


6.  Discovery Provisioning

   Each user (or small group of users) is provided a pair of contact
   addresses, a pair of timing values in seconds, and a secret
   passphrase.

   An example, in [RFC4627] application/json format:

   {
      "initial" : "192.0.2.11",
      "redirect" : "192.0.2.22",
      "wait" : 95,
      "window" : 112,
      "passphrase" : "OUST COAT FOAL MUG BEAK TOTE"
   }

   Another example, with URL shorteners:

   {
      "initial" : "bit.ly/7hkjeE",
      "redirect" : "bit.ly/Eejkh7",
      "wait" : 95,
      "window" : 112,
      "passphrase" : "OUST COAT FOAL MUG BEAK TOTE"
   }

      Nota Bene: example values above are illustrative, and SHOULD NOT
      be used in operation.

   The distribution mechanism is expected to involve proof-of-life and
   proof-of-work.  Distributing this contact information to users is
   beyond the scope of this specification.

   Although there is no expiration field, this contact information MUST
   be limited in time.  The distribution mechanism MAY request a delay
   for activating the contact addresses, or a longer period of validity.
   By default, these contacts will be available immediately, and valid
   for 24 hours.

   Design Considerations:
      Distribution of provisioning is very likely to be compromised.
      Users might share the information with each other, or share a
      connection behind a NAT.

      Therefore, these addresses SHOULD be the least valuable, such as
      retired Bridge Relays or addresses that have been blocked by
      another adversary (see section "Adversary Weaknesses" items 4 and
      5).  Algorithms for address assignment are beyond the scope of



Simpson, Vixie           expires after 6 months                ^L[Page 14]





RFC DRAFT                         ACSCF                   5 January 2015


      this specification.


6.1.  Contact Addresses

   By default, the contacts are standard string forms for IP addresses.
   These addresses SHOULD NOT be Domain Names for the actual servers, as
   this could leave an audit trail, and/or permit an adversary to modify
   DNS values in transit.  This specification MUST avoid reliance on DNS
   (see section "Adversary Strengths" item 4).

   URL scheme names [RFC3986] are not included in the contact string.
   When using the address, the chosen URL scheme name MUST be
   appropriate to the expected contact.

      The demonstration implementation will use "http://" and "https://"
      for the Initial Contact and Redirect Contact respectively.

      Future implementations will use "http://" for both the Initial
      Contact and Redirect Contact.


6.1.1.  URL Shorteners

   The contact addresses MAY be URL shorteners (for example,
   "bit.ly/7hkjeE").  Use of URL shorteners allows contacts to change
   from time to time without additional notice to users.

   Interception or modification of URL shorteners is considered to be
   unlikely, as that would interfere with operation of the Internet for
   many users.  However, all implementations MUST be capable of
   bypassing the DNS portion of the URL shortener, substituting standard
   string forms for IP addresses (the above example resolves to
   "168.143.172.53/7hkjeE").

   In addition, URL shorteners MAY be time dependent: calculated based
   on the current date, and obscured by a cryptographic hash using the
   passphrase.  Details are beyond the scope of this specification.

   Moreover, the URL scheme name within the shortener Redirect result
   MUST match that used for the expected contact.

      The demonstration implementation will use "http://" and "https://"
      for the Initial Contact and Redirect Contact respectively.

      Future implementations will use "http://" for both the Initial
      Contact and Redirect Contact.




Simpson, Vixie           expires after 6 months                ^L[Page 15]





RFC DRAFT                         ACSCF                   5 January 2015


6.1.2.  URL Schemes

   The Initial Contact uses "http://" as it is less likely to be blocked
   or detected.  All traffic is exchanged in the clear, and chosen to
   mimic common websites.

   By default, the [RFC2616] HTTP response will be a mirror of a common
   website or an actual website with plausible content.  (See [DM2006]
   sections 4.5 and 9.3.)

      The demonstration Redirect Contact uses "https://" to verify the
      Initial Contact and protect the list of available ephemeral Bridge
      Relays.

      Future implementations will use "http://" for both the Initial
      Contact and Redirect Contact.

   This step requires confidentiality, mutual authentication, and
   Perfect Forward Secrecy.

   Design Considerations:
      This specification MUST avoid reliance on TLS ciphersuites that
      are vulnerable to MITM attacks (see section "Adversary Strengths"
      item 5).

      Unfortunately, current [RFC4279] "Pre-Shared Key" (PSK)
      ciphersuites do not provide privacy protection for the
      psk_identity.  Worse, they are sufficiently different from a
      common TLS exchange that they are readily detected by an adversary
      and communication to the IP address could be blocked rapidly (see
      section "Adversary Strengths" item 1).

      This design will migrate to non-standard ciphersuites that better
      protect the connection.  Details are beyond the scope of this
      specification.  [Nota Bene: this phase was not implemented, to
      avoid conflicting with similar (ab)use of the TLS exchange fields
      by the SAFER CURVEBALL project.]

      In the future, other scheme pairs will be implemented.  For
      example, the Redirect scheme could also be "http://" with a
      suitable camouflaged protocol that provides confidentiality,
      mutual authentication, and Perfect Forward Secrecy.









Simpson, Vixie           expires after 6 months                ^L[Page 16]





RFC DRAFT                         ACSCF                   5 January 2015


6.1.3.  HTTP GET

   By default, [RFC2616] HTTP GET will always use the minimal path "/"
   and version 1.1:

      GET / HTTP/1.1

   Where URL shorteners are used, they could contain a more specific
   path.  This path would be the same for each user (or small group of
   users) sharing the contact address pair.  It does not provide any
   additional signaling.

   Design Considerations:
      The server root path ("/") is the most commonly used.  While other
      paths could pass identification tokens (or other signals) to the
      contact Gateway, any unusual pattern is readily detected by an
      adversary and communication to the IP address could be blocked
      rapidly (see section "Adversary Strengths" item 1).

      Consider an adversary who is afraid of false positives and doesn't
      want to instantly block every IP address marked by a single
      observation.  Multiple contacts with predictable fingerprints
      increase the likelihood that the number of observations pass a
      certain threshold.  This design minimizes distinguishing
      characteristics.

   Rejected alternatives:
      A multiple [RFC2616] HTTP GET sequence may avoid fingerprinting in
      some instances, but available intrusion detection systems are
      already able to detect this subterfuge.

      Other paths are more difficult to emulate and return relevant
      innocuous content.  There is no provisioning information
      indicating length or style of path.  Paths that do not match other
      sites providing similar content would provide an unusual pattern
      and predictable fingerprint (see section "Adversary Strengths"
      item 2).

      Randomized paths are readily distinguished, as they rarely appear
      in practice.  While apparently random paths do appear in some
      cases (for example, photograph or video websites), sending an
      actual randomized path would most likely repeatedly result in the
      HTTP 404 Not Found error message or some other custom error page.








Simpson, Vixie           expires after 6 months                ^L[Page 17]





RFC DRAFT                         ACSCF                   5 January 2015


6.1.4.  HTTP Host

   The [RFC2616] HTTP Host header field MUST be included.  Absence would
   provide an unusual pattern that is readily detected by an adversary
   and communication to the IP address could be blocked rapidly (see
   section "Adversary Strengths" item 1).

   The Host field usually contains a DNS name for the website.  The DNS
   avoidance requirement (above) precludes reliance on DNS names (see
   section "Adversary Strengths" item 4).

   By default, the Host field contains an IP address.  When a DNS
   inverse address lookup provides a canonical name, that name will be
   used instead.


6.1.5.  HTTPS Certificates

   Although the [RFC5246] DH_anon ciphersuites would be more natural for
   this environment, they are rarely used.  The DHE_RSA combination is
   believed to be fairly common.

   Each IP address MUST have its own DHE_RSA certificate.  This
   certificate is primarily for window dressing.  Instead, the security
   of the protocol depends on mutual authentication of the contact
   passphrase and an ephemeral secret for each Bridge Relay.

   Design Considerations:
      The Ephemeral Diffie-Hellman (DHE) ciphersuites provide Perfect
      Forward Secrecy (PFS).

      By default, the certificates will be self-signed.  For greater
      verisimilitude, the server could be a mirror of a common website
      or an actual website with plausible content.  (See [DM2006]
      sections 4.5 and 9.3.)

      Future versions of this protocol hope to eliminate certificates
      entirely.  But hope is not a plan.













Simpson, Vixie           expires after 6 months                ^L[Page 18]





RFC DRAFT                         ACSCF                   5 January 2015


6.2.  Contact Timing

   Timing delays serve as a "security by obscurity" safeguard against
   detection.  The values determine timing between contacts, allow
   sufficient time for contact to occur, and provide a time limit on
   replays.

   These timing parameters MUST be different for each user (or small
   group of users) sharing the contact address pair.  For example, a DUA
   might be configured with delay values 95 and 112.  Another DUA might
   use 100 and 120.  There is likely to be considerable overlap between
   users.

   Moreover, the product (multiplying the two values) MUST be different
   for each user (or small group of users) sharing the contact address
   pair.  This assists in authentication processing.

   In addition to the delay functionality, these timing parameters are a
   limited form of 2 to 6 digit Personal Identification Number (PIN).
   Although these digits are interdependent and might be derived from
   observation, they provide an identity substitute for each user (or
   small group of users) sharing the contact address pair.  This also
   assists in anonymizing long-term log information, as any IP addresses
   need not be retained.

   Design Considerations:
      The timing values are appropriate for terrestrial communication.
      Longer distances would need commensurately longer periods.


6.3.  Contact Passphrase

   The passphrase prevents adversaries from indirect discovery of the
   ephemeral Bridge Relay(s).  An interloper who can intercept or modify
   a TLS connection will fail the final verification.

   The passphrase uses the [RFC2289] One-Time Password System
   dictionary.  This provides a 64-bit secret key with an additional 2
   bits of checksum.

   All passphrase generators MUST calculate this checksum.  All
   passphrase calculations MUST verify this checksum as part of the
   operation of decoding.








Simpson, Vixie           expires after 6 months                ^L[Page 19]





RFC DRAFT                         ACSCF                   5 January 2015


6.4.  Ephemeral Results

   Ephemeral identities and secrets are generated for each separate
   contact sequence.  Every user will obtain a different identity and
   secret for each ephemeral Bridge Relay, and they will expire
   expeditiously.

   If a user is an adversary or cooperating with an adversary, these
   Bridge Relays could be quickly blocked.  Only a small subset of
   available IP addresses will be given to each user (or small group of
   users).

   These ephemeral Bridge Relays are the "crown jewel", the goal of
   Address-Change Signaling.  This step requires confidentiality, mutual
   authentication, and Perfect Forward Secrecy.

   Confidentiality

      Without confidentiality, all Bridge Relays would be revealed to an
      adversary and could be quickly blocked.

   Mutual Authentication

      Separate identities and secrets prevent impersonation of another
      user and subsequent breaches of confidentiality.  Proofs of
      security for key exchange require authentication of the ephemeral
      secret key by both parties.

   Perfect Forward Secrecy

      Compromised identities and secrets MUST NOT violate the
      confidentiality of any current traffic nor any earlier traffic.


7.  Contacts

   DUA headers are chosen to emulate popular browsers.  If possible, the
   user's default browser is determined and emulated.













Simpson, Vixie           expires after 6 months                ^L[Page 20]





RFC DRAFT                         ACSCF                   5 January 2015


7.1.  Initial Contact

   DUA                    Initial
   ==========             =======
   HTTP GET            ->
     Referer*
                      <-  HTTP
                            Set-Cookie+

   The DUA contacts the "initial" Gateway with HTTP.  A time-dependent
   HTTP Set-Cookie is returned to the DUA, along with innocuous content.

   The DUA SHOULD NOT send another HTTP GET request to this Gateway
   until after the delay "window" seconds has elapsed.

   If a URL shortener was used, the HTTP Referer [sic] header field
   value SHOULD be set to the original URL.  Otherwise, the Referer is
   not sent.

   The Gateway MUST transmit one or more [RFC6265] Set-Cookie string(s).
   The cookie-name SHOULD be any commonly implemented value, such as
   ".ASPXAUTH", "PREF", etc.  The cookie-value MUST be unique for its
   Initial Gateway, but need not be unique among all Initial Gateways.

   Design Considerations:
      It is theoretically trivial to defeat the Initial Contact.  A
      well-financed MITM might intercept and replace every Cookie.  If
      the adversary can track all cookies on the downstream side, and
      restore them on the upstream side as they are used, Internet
      services will not be disrupted.  It is assumed that an adversary
      will not have this capability (see section "Adversary Weaknesses"
      item 3).

      A significant volume of Initial Contacts could be handled by the
      Gateway.  These contacts might be innocuous, scans by an
      adversary, or a DoS attack.  The Initial Gateway does not retain
      any additional state for each Initial Contact.














Simpson, Vixie           expires after 6 months                ^L[Page 21]





RFC DRAFT                         ACSCF                   5 January 2015


7.2.  Redirect Contact

   DUA                    Redirect
   ==========             ========
   HTTPS               ->
                      <-  HTTPS
   HTTP GET            ->
     Referer*
                      <-  HTTP
                            bridge relay(s)+
                              Camouflage*
                              Contact
                              br_expiration
                              br_identity
                              br_secret

   The DUA delays for "wait" seconds, then contacts the "redirect"
   Gateway by specifying a ciphersuite using a time-dependent
   verification_key generated from its passphrase and the Hello random
   (timed) values.

   If a URL shortener was used, the HTTP Referer [sic] header field
   value SHOULD be set to the original URL.  Otherwise, the Referer is
   not sent.

   This Gateway consults its provisioning status for verification
   information.  If the contact is authenticated and authorized, it
   returns a short list of ephemeral Bridge Relays.

   Each relay specifies a randomly generated ephemeral br_identity and
   br_secret that is different for every user and relay pairing.  The
   br_identity MUST be unique for its Bridge Relay, but need not be
   unique among all Bridge Relays.

   Design Considerations:
      A significant volume of Redirect Contacts could be handled by the
      Gateway.  These contacts might be innocuous, scans by an
      adversary, or a DoS attack.  Provision for filtering contacts is
      REQUIRED.  These contacts will be discarded after expiration of
      the delay window.











Simpson, Vixie           expires after 6 months                ^L[Page 22]





RFC DRAFT                         ACSCF                   5 January 2015


7.3.  Bridge Relays

   DUA                    Relay(s)
   ==========             ========
   HTTPS               ->
                      <-  HTTPS
   HTTP GET            ->
                      <-  HTTP

   The DUA contacts Bridge Relays by specifying a ciphersuite using
   another time-dependent verification_key generated from its ephemeral
   br_secret and the Hello random (timed) values.

   This Gateway consults its provisioning status for verification
   information.  If the contact is authenticated and authorized, it
   permits access.


Acknowledgments

   This document parallels text originally in [DM2006], combined with
   more stringent requirements of Defiance, and text from various other
   drafts by the same author (such as Photuris, PIPE, and TCPCT).

   Roger Dingledine and George Kadianakis made substantial contributions
   and suggestions.

   Jeroen Massar provided motivation for several rejected alternatives.


Operational Considerations

   Any implementation of this specification SHOULD be configurable,
   separately for each port or connection.

   Each APRAdb and Gateway configuration will include the public keys
   for all systems.

   Each Gateway configuration will include a list of IP address blocks
   it serves.

   Additional details are found in [ACSIS].









Simpson, Vixie           expires after 6 months                ^L[Page 23]





RFC DRAFT                         ACSCF                   5 January 2015


Security Considerations

   This protocol was based on currently available tools, by experienced
   network protocol designers with an interest in cryptography, rather
   than by cryptographers with an interest in network protocols.  This
   specification is intended to be readily implementable without
   requiring an extensive background in cryptology.

   Never underestimate traffic analysis!  It's surmised that well-
   funded, secret institutions are far ahead of the public cryptology
   field.

   In particular, every protocol will leave a fingerprint.  This
   attempts to avoid as many known issues as practicable, providing
   agility and flexibility to resist analysis.

   Under a Denial of Service (DoS) attack, this is designed to fail
   softly.  Each Gateway database cache is read-mostly, supporting a
   large number of contacts.  When SSH connections are blocked by
   traffic, the Gateway will cease responding to contacts until SSH
   communication is re-established.

   Other security considerations are mentioned in Design Considerations
   throughout this document.



























Simpson, Vixie           expires after 6 months                ^L[Page 24]





RFC DRAFT                         ACSCF                   5 January 2015


Normative References


   [RFC2119]   Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
               Requirement Levels", BCP 14, March 1997.

   [RFC2289]   Haller, N., Metz, C., Nesser, P., and M. Straw, "A One-
               Time Password System", STD 61, RFC 2289, February 1998.

   [RFC2616]   Fielding, R., Gettys, J., Mogul, J., Frystyk, H.,
               Masinter, L., Leach, P., and T. Berners-Lee, "Hypertext
               Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.1", RFC 2616, June 1999.

   [RFC4251]   Ylonen, T.  and C. Lonvick, Ed., "The Secure Shell (SSH)
               Protocol Architecture", RFC 4251, January 2006.

   [RFC4279]   Eronen, P., Ed., and H. Tschofenig, Ed., "Pre-Shared Key
               ciphersuites for Transport Layer Security (TLS)", RFC
               4279, December 2005.

   [RFC4627]   Crockford, D., "The application/json Media Type for
               JavaScript Object Notation (JSON)", RFC 4627, July 2006.

   [RFC5246]   Dierks, T.  and E. Rescorla, "The Transport Layer
               Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.2", RFC 5246, August
               2008.

   [RFC6265]   Barth, A., "HTTP State Management Mechanism", RFC 6265,
               April 2011.


Informative References


   [ACSIS]     Simpson, W., and P. Vixie, "Defiance Address-Change
               Signaling - Implementation and Specification", work in
               progress, draft-simpson-acsis-2012Dec08

   [DM2006]    Dingledine, R., and N. Mathewson, "Design of a blocking-
               resistant anonymity system Tor Project technical report",
               November 2006.
               https://svn.torproject.org/svn/projects/design-
               paper/blocking.html

   [RFC1034]   Mockapetris, P., "Domain names - concepts and
               facilities", STD 13, RFC 1034, November 1987.





Simpson, Vixie           expires after 6 months                ^L[Page 25]





RFC DRAFT                         ACSCF                   5 January 2015


   [RFC1035]   Mockapetris, P., "Domain names - implementation and
               specification", STD 13, RFC 1035, November 1987.

   [RFC2522]   Karn, P.  and W. Simpson, "Photuris: Session-Key
               Management Protocol", RFC 2522, March 1999.

   [RFC3022]   Srisuresh, P., and K. Egevang, "Traditional IP Network
               Address Translator (Traditional NAT)", January 2001.

   [RFC3986]   Berners-Lee, T., Fielding, R., and L. Masinter, "Uniform
               Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax" STD 66, RFC
               3986, January 2005.

   [RFC4033]   Arends, R., Austein, R., Larson, M., Massey, D., and S.
               Rose, "DNS Security Introduction and Requirements", RFC
               4033, March 2005.

   [RFC4271]   Rekhter, Y.  and T. Li, "A Border Gateway Protocol 4
               (BGP-4)", RFC 1771, March 1995.

   [Tor]       Dingledine, R., and N. Mathewson, "Tor Protocol
               Specification".
               https://gitweb.torproject.org/tor-
               spec.git?a=blob_plain;hb=HEAD;f=tor-spec.txt


Author's Address

   Questions about this document can be directed to:

      William Allen Simpson
      DayDreamer
      Computer Systems Consulting Services
      1384 Fontaine
      Madison Heights, Michigan  48071

          William.Allen.Simpson@Gmail.com


      Paul Vixie
      Internet Software Consortium
      950 Charter Street
      Redwood City, California  94063

          vixie@isc.org






Simpson, Vixie           expires after 6 months                ^L[Page 26]





RFC DRAFT                         ACSCF                   5 January 2015





















































Simpson, Vixie           expires after 6 months                ^L[Page ii]





RFC DRAFT                         ACSCF                   5 January 2015



                           [1mTable of Contents[0m


     1.     Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
        1.1       Rejected Alternatives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
        1.2       Terminology  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
     2.     Adversary Model  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
        2.1       Adversary Strengths  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
        2.2       Adversary Weaknesses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
     3.     Solution Overview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
        3.1       Address-Change Signaling . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
        3.2       Address Pools  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
        3.3       Address Leases . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
     4.     Servers  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
        4.1       Database Servers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
        4.2       Gateways . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
        4.3       Routing via Tunnels  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
        4.4       Hostile Areas  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
     5.     Gateway Provisioning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
        5.1       Bridge Relay List  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
     6.     Discovery Provisioning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
        6.1       Contact Addresses  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
           6.1.1  URL Shorteners . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
           6.1.2  URL Schemes  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
           6.1.3  HTTP GET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
           6.1.4  HTTP Host  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
           6.1.5  HTTPS Certificates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
        6.2       Contact Timing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
        6.3       Contact Passphrase . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
        6.4       Ephemeral Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
     7.     Contacts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
        7.1       Initial Contact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
        7.2       Redirect Contact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
        7.3       Bridge Relays  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
     ACKNOWLEDGMENTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
     OPERATIONAL CONSIDERATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
     SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
     NORMATIVE REFERENCES  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
     INFORMATIVE REFERENCES  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
     CONTACTS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26










Simpson, Vixie           expires after 6 months                 ^L[Page i]


